In the previous module, you saw
a basic sample of supervised machine
learning using a k-nearest
neighbor classifier,
classifying different types of fruit based
on their various physical properties.
Machine learning algorithms of this
type are called supervised learning
algorithms because they use labeled
examples in the training set
to learn how to predict the labels for
new, previously unseen examples.
The supervised aspect
refers to the need for
each training example to
have a label in order for
the algorithm to learn how to make
accurate predictions on future examples.
This is in contrast to
unsupervised machine learning
where we don't have labels for
the training data examples, and
we'll cover unsupervised learning
in a later part of this course.
This week, we'll explore supervised
learning in a bit more depth,
going beyond k-nearest neighbors
classifiers to several other widely used
supervised learning algorithms.
Because this is an applied
machine learning course,
we're not going to cover too much
of the mathematical derivation or
the detailed innerworkings
of these algorithms.
For that, you can check out a number of
more technical machine learning courses
such as Andrew Ng's excellent course
on Machine Learning on Coursera.
Instead, we'll focus on
some higher-level goals.
How to apply a number of specific
supervised machine learning algorithms and
how to interpret their results for
important tasks.
This will include understanding how
supervised learning algorithms estimate
their parameters from data, how the train
model makes predictions for new instances.
The strengths, weaknesses and best
scenarios to apply a particular method and
how to use the method with its parameter
settings in Python programs using
scikit-learn.
Across all of these algorithms we'll
discuss some general principles
that are critical to machine learning,
like the issue of overfitting and
how overfitting relates
to a models complexity.
And which parameters typically
can be used to control
model complexity in order to obtain good
performance on previously unseen data.
In this module we won't have time to
cover all the different parameters for
the various supervise learning methods.
So we'll focus on a small number
of the most important parameters.
The full details of all the supervised
algorithms we'll cover this week
are in the excellent online documentation
that's provided with PsychEd Learn.
Which we've included links to in
the supplemental material for this course.
Before we continue,
let's review some basic terms.
So, on the right, here I'm showing
the adapt of the first few
rows of the fruit dataset that
you worked with last week.
The first term that we would be using
a lot is feature representation.
And as you might recall what that means is
taking an object like a piece of fruit and
converting it into numbers that
the computer can understand.
So in this dataset,
the feature representation for
a piece of fruit consists of
these columns, the mass, width,
height, and color_score.
These are the things that
will be used as the features
in the various machine learning algorithms
that we'll be applying to try to
predict the label of a piece of fruit.
So typically each column in
the dataset here corresponds to
a different feature that's
associated with each instance.
So I used the term instance or sample or
example somewhat interchangeably.
Most of the time I'll be talking
about instances or samples.
So each row of this
dataset corresponds to one
piece of fruit or
one specific data instance per sample.
When we work with these
instances in Python,
the convention we'll be using
is that we'll put the all
the variables that represent the features
in this variable capital X here.
So capital X refers to all the feature
columns that will be going into as
the inputs for the predictor.
And then we have the very
important concept of a label.
So each instance here, each piece
of fruit has a label that's what's
assigned by a human in this case, and
the label is an example of a target value.
So in classification, the target value is
label of an object and then regression,
it's the particular continuous value you
might want to protect from the inputs.
And we use lower case y in Python for
the variable name to hold
the target values associated
with each instance.
So if you look at the dataset as
being say this big block here.
Typically that'll be
a column of labels and
then a matrix of multiple columns holding
the features that we will be using.
And then we have a couple
of columns in here.
The fruit name and the fruit subtype.
That are used only for
labeling purposes to make things like
plots, more readable for humans.
The things that go into the actual machine
learning algorithms are the label for
training through the Y variable and
the features, the mass with height and
color score that are in the X variable.
Another concept that we saw
from our first example.
The concept of training and test sets.
So by that we mean a just
to recap we think of
the entire data said
here is a rectangle So
this could be the fruit
which is showed previously.
We typically sign a chunk
of the original dataset and
make that to training set,
and then we reserve
typically a smaller portion,
that's the test set.
So the default split in scikit
learn is typically 75, 25.
The function train test split
here is a very handy function
in scikit learn that takes the original
set of features x and the labels y.
And does this partitioning
into a training and test set.
So the variables that we'll be
using to denote training and
test set are x_train for
the training set features and
y_train for the training set labels.
And then x_test for
the test set features and
y_test for the test set labels.
Once we pass the training data into
a classifier, so as you recall,
we can create here KNeighborsClassifier
by invoking this constructor and
passing it the number of neighbors
that we want the algorithm to use.
The training set is used to estimate
the parameters for a model.
In scikit learn,
there's an object called an estimator,
which is either classify or
regressor for example.
And the goal of this estimator,
this model, is to learn how to classify or
predict target values for
new data instances.
So the procedure where we
pass in a training set
to learn those parameters that
are internal to the estimator,
is called a model fitting, and the result
of model fitting is a trained model.
So an example of that in the code here
is after we create the knm variable
that has the knn neighbors
classifier objected,
we use the fit method on the training
data and the training labels.
To update the internal state of the kmn
object, and that's the training process.
So after that line of code is finished
running, the internal state of the knn
classifier has been updated to reflect
the training data's influence on
the internal parameters of the kmn
classifier, and now it's ready to be used.
So, evaluation methods are typically the
next step where after we've fit the model,
we want to see how well it
actually does do on the test data.
So in week four of the course
we're going to cover in detail.
Different ways of evaluating
classifiers and regressions.
But for now, we'll look at accuracy.
So the score method applied to
the classifier will take the test
data in X test and Y test and
output the accuracy of this particular
classifier on the test set.
And then finally we can also apply
the predict method to the ken end object.
To get the label for
previously unseen instances.
So these are the terms that would
be using throughout the course and
we will also be maintaining a fairly
consistent use of these variable names
throughout all the Python
code that we use.
Supervised learning can be divided
into two different types of tasks,
classification and regression.
Both classification and regression
take a set of training instances and
learn a mapping to a target value.
For classification, the target
value is a discrete class value.
For example, a binary classification
problem has a two types of target values.
A 0 representing the negative class or
1 representing the positive class.
An example of binary
classification might be
trying to detect a fraudulent
credit card transaction.
The transaction is either valid or
invalid.
The second type of classification problem
is known as multi-class classification,
where the target value is more
then just a yes or a no, or
1 or 0, it could be one of
a set of discrete values.
For example, the labeling fruit example
that we saw from the first part
of the course is an example of multi-class
classification because the object that
we're trying to predict the label for can
only have one of the possible label types.
Something couldn't be for
example both an apple and an orange.
The third category of classification
is called multi label
classification with our
multiple target values.
For example,
we might want to take a web page and
label all the different topics discussed
on that page as shown in this example.
Here we see a page from Microsoft research
where the multi-label classification
has decided that the labels computing,
science, and so forth are applicable.
In contrast to classification, for
regression, the target we're trying
to predict is a continuous value.
For example, a model that predicts
the market price of a house,
given how many rooms it has,
where its located,
the size of the land that it sits on and
so forth, would be a regression problem.
Because the market price is continuous,
otherwise known as a real value variable.
You can tell what type of supervisor
learning method you should apply to
a given problem by thinking about
the meaning of the target value.
Does the target value represent something
that's one of a set of mutually exclusive
class values as in the case of
assigning a label to a piece of fruit?
Or whether or
not a transaction is fraudulent?
If so, it's a classification problem.
On the other hand, if the target is a real
value quantity like cost, or income, or
height then it can be treated
as a regression problem.
Finally, we'll see that many
supervised learning methods come in
both flavors of classification and
regression.
For example, support vector
classifiers which we'll cover shortly
also has a regression version called not
surprisingly support vector regression.
In this course, we'll cover both
classification and regression methods,
although we'll spend the majority
of our time on classification.
Since that represents a big set of
important machine learning tasks, and
because classification involves some
additional concepts and methods
especially in areas like evaluation that
aren't needed as much for regression.
To start with, we'll look at two simple
but powerful prediction algorithms.
K-nearest neighbours,
which we saw in week one and
linear model fitting using least-squares.
These two prediction methods represent two
complimentary approaches to supervised
learning.
K-nearest neighbors doesn't make a lot
of assumptions about the structure of
the data and gives potentially accurate,
but sometimes unstable predictions.
And by unstable I mean that it can
be sensitive to small changes in
the training data.
On the other hand,
linear models make strong assumptions
about the structure of the data.
In other words, that the target value can
be predicted just using a weighted sum of
the input variables, a linear function.
It can get stable, but
potentially inaccurate predictions.
In addition to k-nearest neighbors and
linear models, we'll cover a variety of
widely used supervised learning methods
for classification and regression.
Including decision trees,
kernelized support vector machines and
neural networks.
For each method we'll explore
how it works at a high level
without going into too
much mathematical details.
We'll also look at what kind of feature
preprocessing is typically needed.
And for almost all of the supervised
learning algorithms we'll look at.
There are one or more parameters that
control its model complexity, so
we'll see how to set these parameters
to help avoid under and over fitting.
Finally, we'll discuss the positives and
negatives of each supervised learning
approach to help understand what
are the best scenarios in which to apply
or not apply that particular method.
One consistent pattern you'll see as we
look at all these different methods, is
the relationship between model complexity
and model accuracy, as shown in this plot.
The relationship is different depending
on whether the classifier performance is
measured on the training set, what is
labeled here as training set score, or
in the test set labeled
here as test set score.
When measuring performance against the
training set, the same one that was used
to train the classifier, this plot shows
that as a model's complexity increases,
so think of the k and
n classifier with k decreasing.
And with more and more highly variable and
a detailed decision boundaries.
The model's accuracy and the training set
trends upward as the more complex models
fit the training data better and better.
However, when the same trained model
is evaluated on the held out test set,
there's typically an initial accuracy
gain from the increasing model complexity
up to some optimal point.
But then a decrease in test set
accuracy as the increasingly complex
models begin to overfit too
specifically to the training data, and
don't capture more global patterns that
help it generalize well to unseen testing.
Now the specifics of these trends will
vary from situation to situation,
but overall we'll see this pattern across
the supervised learning methods that
we'll examine.
You'll be hearing a lot
about models in this course.
What is a model?
Well, it's a specific mathematical or
computational description
that expresses the relationship between
a set of input variables and one or
more outcome variables that
are being studied or predicted.
In statistical terms the input variables
are called independent variables and
the outcome variables
are termed dependent variables.
In Machine Learning we use the term
features to refer to the input, or
independent variables.
And target value or target label to refer
to the output, dependent variables.
Models can be either used to
understand and explore the structure
within a given dataset,
as we'll see in unsupervised learning.
Or in the case of supervised
learning methods,
our goal is to develop predictive models
that can accurately predict the outcome.
In other words, the target value or
label for previously unseen input data.